# kdesrc-build 1.16.1

## QUICK HOWTO

1. Install kdesrc-build:
    - Copy the kdesrc-build directory somewhere where you will be able to find
      it. The whole directory has to go together, so don't just copy the script
      itself.

    - Alternately, you can run the `git` command itself to easily install
      kdesrc-build:

      $ mkdir -p ~/kdesrc
      $ cd ~/kdesrc
      $ git clone git://anongit.kde.org/kdesrc-build
      $ cd kdesrc-build # kdesrc-build is in this directory

2. Setup:
    - **For KDE 4 Platform and Plasma Desktop**: If you don't already have a
      ~/.kdesrc-buildrc, use the kdesrc-build-setup program to make one, or
      copy kdesrc-buildrc-sample to ~/.kdesrc-buildrc and make any changes that
      you need.

    - **For KDE Frameworks ("KF5") / Plasma Next**: Please see the
      `kf5-qt5-build-include` file contained within the kdesrc-build directory.
      You will still end up generating a ~/.kdesrc-buildrc file but you will
      use the `branch-group` option to help kdesrc-build select the right
      modules and branches.

    - Either way, you can also consult the kdesrc-buildrc-sample file to see
      what options are available, or look at the documentation at
      http://kdesrc-build.kde.org/documentation/conf-options-table.html

3. From the kdesrc-build directory, run "./kdesrc-build --pretend".  This will
   have kdesrc-build go through the steps that it would perform, but without
   actually doing them. This is a good time to make sure that kdesrc-build is
   set the way you want it.

4. When you're ready, run "./kdesrc-build". Hopefully everything will go well
   the first time, and kdesrc-build will be able to download and build all of
   the modules that you ask for. :)

## UPGRADING KDESRC-BUILD

Upgrading is simple. You can delete your old kdesrc-build directory (make sure
you don't have any local changes in there first, or your kdesrc-buildrc file!)
and then install the new version where the old kdesrc-build directory used to
be.

If you are tracking "KF5" development, it is probably best to run kdesrc-build
itself from its git repository to automatically pick up bugfixes and needed
feature additions. You can even use kdesrc-build to manage keeping kdesrc-build
up to date (though remember if you do this that if kdesrc-build updates itself,
those updates won't take effect until the next run).

Either way, you may want to edit your ~/.kdesrc-buildrc to make sure any new
options are included. You should always read the changes for the new version
however, as sometimes there are slight changes in behavior necessary to adapt
to updates in the source repository. If you are running kdesrc-build from its
git repository, you can use the "git log" command from inside the kdesrc-build
source directory to see the latest changes.

You can use the `./kdesrc-build --version` command to ensure that you have
successfully upgraded kdesrc-build.

## SAMPLE CONFIGURATION

A sample configuration file is included.  It should work for you for the most
part with only minor tweaking.  To use it, just copy it to ~/.kdesrc-buildrc.

Alternatively, a program is included called kdesrc-build-setup, which can be
used to generate a simple configuration (for KDE4-based builds).

## HELP!!!

kdesrc-build includes a limited command-line description with the
--help option.

You can read the kdesrc-build handbook online at
http://kdesrc-build.kde.org/documentation/.

You can ask for help online on the #kde-devel channel of IRC (irc.kde.org).

You can also ask on the KDE support mailing lists, such as kde-devel@kde.org

Finally you can drop me an email at mpyne@kde.org (although I have a job/family
and therefore don't always have time to respond)

## UPDATES / CONTACT INFO

You can find updated versions of kdesrc-build online as part of the
extragear/utils module: (You can also see the change log this way)

https://projects.kde.org/projects/extragear/utils/kdesrc-build

If you find a bug, please report it at:
  http://bugs.kde.org/

If you have any questions, feel free to let me know:
  Michael Pyne <mpyne@kde.org>

If I don't respond in a couple of days I'm probably really busy, in which
case I apologize and you should contact the kde-devel@kde.org mailing list.
